#summary How to install and build a module

= Installation =

BlitzMax uses a hierarchical directory structure which separates modules into related groups (or namespaces).

The main module folder can be found at `BlitzMax/mod`.

The official modules that come with BlitzMax use the namespaces of *BRL* and *Pub*. Each namespace has its own folder, so for example, all modules that begin with `BRL.` will appear under `brl.mod` (and therefore the full path of `BlitzMax/mod/brl.mod`).

Brucey's modules appear under the namespace of *BaH*, and therefore there needs to be a namespace folder called `bah.mod` (the full path being `BlitzMax/mod/bah.mod`).


Generally, a packaged module will have the module folder and its contents. This module folder name will look like `chipmunk.mod`, and the folder should be placed into the namespace folder.

Thus, the path to the module *BaH.Chipmunk*, would actually look like this : `BlitzMax/mod/bah.mod/chipmunk.mod`


= Building =

Building modules on Windows will require the installation of MinGW. (You can find out more about installing MinGW for BlitzMax [http://blitzmax.com/Community/posts.php?topic=72892 here].)
For Linux and MacOS X you will need the appropriate developer tools installed.

Some of Brucey's modules also require a _tweaked_ version of the BlitzMax make app BMK. See [http://code.google.com/p/wxmax/wiki/WhatToDoWithBmk WhatToDoWithBmk] for more details.

Otherwise, you build modules simply by choosing the Build Modules option from the IDE.